Rayfit case study (#13764)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/customers/rayfit.md

---

> title: How Rayfit uses PostHog AI to make analytics self-serve

Reviewer: See my comments further into the piece itself before judging this 😄  (and feel free to disagree!)

```suggestion
title: How Rayfit uses PostHog AI to make all their data accessible
```

customer: Rayfit
featuredImage: >-

>     https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/lovable_ca8b63c28c_ef5bcb4589.png

Author: Artwork [request](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/13747) pending

date: 2025-11-21
---

[Rayfit](https://www.rayfit.com/) is building an AI personal training app that solves for the hardest part of fitness: showing up consistently. Their conversational AI coach, _Ray_, generates personalized workouts based on equipment, energy level, and available time.

Alan, Rayfit’s Full Stack Engineering Lead, manages product development and data infrastructure. We asked him why he chose PostHog:

"As an early stage startup, we're cost sensitive," Alan says. “Initially we planned to stitch together an analytics tool and Metabase, but then we looked at PostHog. It's just so cheap and easy. We connected our database and built our pipeline with almost no work."

For a team deep in the technical trenches of machine learning and computer vision, PostHog's "one-stop shop" setup meaningfully reduced the time and effort of building out their stack. [Analytics](/docs/product-analytics), [feature flags](/docs/feature-flags), and the [data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse) could all live one in place.

That solved the infrastructure problem. Next was ensuring the entire team was on board.

> ## Getting over the learning curve with PostHog AI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting over the learning curve with PostHog AI

```

For Rayfit, the early friction wasn’t collecting data, it was making sure everyone could access it. "PostHog can present as really technical," Alan explains. “Our CEO and designer had used Mixpanel and Amplitude before — which felt more approachable since PostHog is built for engineers.”

> Their data model added another layer. Not everyone on the team is fluent in SQL, but their workflow depends on it. “A lot of the data we use for the generated workouts lives in the app itself,” Alan says. “It wouldn't make sense to send a unique event for each one. With the warehouse we can join it to a person and learn more about their behaviors.”

Reviewer: Maybe a link we could use for SQL skills: https://posthog.com/product-engineers/sql-for-analytics

> That’s where [PostHog AI](/docs/posthog-ai) comes in. For Alan, SQL is second nature — AI just removes some friction. For the rest of the team, having AI draft and edit queries makes the whole workflow far more accessible. “PostHog AI has actually been a deciding factor in our decision to stick with PostHog,” he told us. “Without it, we probably would have moved to a different analytics package because the learning curve felt so steep.”

Reviewer: Do we have a product page for PostHog AI? Could link that here.

<OSQuote
  customer="rayfit"
  author="alan_yang"
  quote={0}
/>

> ## Realistic expectations, real results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Realistic expectations, real results

```

So when PostHog AI doesn’t nail the syntax on the first try, he doesn’t see it as a failure — just part of the workflow. In fact, it mirrors how both Rayfit and PostHog operate. “We're shipping things before they're fully baked just like PostHog,” he says. “So when AI features don't work perfectly, everyone is willing to try again.”

Even 30–50% accuracy is a win when the alternative is teammates getting stuck or pinging Alan for every question. “It’s saved me countless hours because the data we have is so much more self-serve,” he says. “Anyone on the team can ask questions to PostHog AI.”

What surprised him most is how quickly others leaned into it. “Some of the engineers are using PostHog AI way more than me,” Alan admits. “They're building insights and dashboards, and each of them has workflows I never really thought about.”

![rayfit moving average chart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/rayfit_rep_counting_chart_5a99280ef4.png)
<Caption>Rep Counting Availability (how many exercises in a workout have rep counting available)</caption>

> _PostHog AI helped me add a moving average to this insight. This was really cool to build because it quantifies that we're getting better over time._ 

Reviewer: I assume this is what this feature does? I don't think we need to repeat the name as it is already in the image + formating
```suggestion

![rayfit moving average chart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/rayfit_rep_counting_chart_5a99280ef4.png)
<Caption>How many exercises in a workout have their AI rep counting feature available</caption>

_PostHog AI helped me add a moving average to this insight. This was really cool to build because it quantifies that we're getting better over time._ 
```

![rayfit available rep counting chart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/rayfit_exercises_chart_b8a00f06de.png)
<Caption>Rep Counting Performance (blue means high accuracy outcomes)</caption>
_One of our early computer vision features uses AI to count how many reps you're doing in an exercise. PostHog AI helped us build the visualization in seconds._

## AI that gets out of your way
For his own work with SQL, Alan says "I usually know exactly what I want to write, so I hammer it out 75-80% of the way. If I run into something I don't know off the top of my head — extracting from JSON, complex aggregation — I'll have PostHog iterate on the query. I do that almost every time."

About 25% of the time, he has PostHog start from scratch. "Usually when I just don't have time to really think about it and want to do something in parallel. I'll kick it off, come back, and then 

> Alan also uses PostHog AI to ask questions about the PostHog docs. “It’s really helpful that PostHog AI is context aware of the page or insight I’m looking at,” he says. “I can ask vague things like what does this mean or how do I configure this setting without having to explain much.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alan also uses PostHog AI to ask questions about the docs. “It’s really helpful that PostHog AI is context aware of the page or insight I’m looking at,” he says. “I can ask vague things like what does this mean or how do I configure this setting without having to explain much.”
```

> ## So what’s the real superpower here?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## So what’s the real superpower here?

```

> For Rayfit, PostHog AI solved a critical adoption problem. The tool they chose for its technical power became accessible to their entire team with PostHog AI. “PostHog AI helps the rest of the team feel like the tool we've chosen is easy to use," Alan says.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Rayfit, PostHog AI solved a critical adoption problem: As powerful as data can be, it's not valuable if your team can't access it. “PostHog AI helps the rest of the team feel like the tool we've chosen is easy to use," Alan says.
```

---
title: How RayFit uses PostHog AI to make all their data accessible
customer: RayFit
featuredImage: >-

>     [https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/lovable_ca8b63c28c_ef5bcb4589.png](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/Rayfit_1aa197cafd.png)

Reviewer 2: believe this is what's breaking the build - should just be a single url string.

Author: I think something else is awry. Still failing to deploy

Like many, their in-app data was also tricky to access. It requires [SQL skills](/product-engineers/sql-for-analytics) not everyone has. "A lot of the data we use for the generated workouts lives in the app itself," Alan says. "It wouldn't make sense to send a unique event for each one. With the warehouse, we can join it to a person and learn more about their behaviors."

That’s where [PostHog AI](/ai) comes in. For Alan, SQL is second nature — AI just removes some friction. For the rest of the team, having AI draft and edit queries makes the whole workflow far more accessible. “PostHog AI has actually been a deciding factor in our decision to stick with PostHog,” he told us. “Without it, we probably would have moved to a different analytics package because the learning curve felt so steep.”

<OSQuote
  customer="rayfit"
  author="alan_yang"
  quote={0}
/>

## Realistic expectations, real results

As an early adopter of AI products (in and outside of PostHog), Alan is pragmatic about AI capabilities. “All LLMs right now are about 30–50%,” he says. “But it’s a nice problem space because that’s still a win when it gets it right.”

> So when PostHog AI doesn’t nail the syntax on the first try, he doesn’t see it as a failure — just part of the workflow. In fact, it mirrors how both Rayfit and PostHog operate. “We're shipping things before they're fully baked just like PostHog,” he says. “So when AI features don't work perfectly, everyone is willing to try again.”

Reviewer 3: > We're shipping things before they're fully baked just like PostHog

Could we reframe this as "we're shipping to learn" rather than "fully baked" which can come off a reckless to some readers?

Even 30–50% accuracy is a win when the alternative is teammates getting stuck or pinging Alan for every question. “It’s saved me countless hours because the data we have is so much more self-serve,” he says. “Anyone on the team can ask questions to PostHog AI.”

What surprised him most is how quickly others leaned into it. “Some of the engineers are using PostHog AI way more than me,” Alan admits. “They're building insights and dashboards, and each of them has workflows I never really thought about.”

> ![rayfit moving average chart](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/rayfit_rep_counting_chart_5a99280ef4.png)

Reviewer 3: Could we use this screen grab instead? Has a better title for external readers

<img width="765" height="720" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a7f281d4-2c32-456e-8949-148db5bda239" />
